README.md, before:

# Snowflake MCP Service

A Model Context Protocol (MCP) server that provides Claude access to Snowflake databases.

![GitHub repo](https://img.shields.io/badge/GitHub-snowflake--mcp-blue)
![License: MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-yellow.svg)

This server implements the Model Context Protocol to allow Claude to:
- Execute SQL queries on Snowflake databases
- Automatically handle database connection lifecycle (connect, reconnect on timeout, close)
- Handle query results and errors
- Perform database operations safely

## Installation

1. Clone this repository
```bash
git clone https://github.com/davidamom/snowflake-mcp.git
```

2. Install dependencies
```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

## Configuration

### MCP Client Configuration Example

Add the following configuration to `claude_desktop_config.json`:

```json
{
  "mcpServers": {
    "snowflake": {
      "command": "C:\\Users\\YourUsername\\path\\to\\python.exe",
      "args": ["C:\\path\\to\\snowflake-mcp\\server.py"]
    }
  }
}
```

Configuration parameters:
- `command`: Full path to your Python interpreter. Please modify this according to your Python installation location.
- `args`: Full path to the server script. Please modify this according to where you cloned the repository.

Example paths for different operating systems:

Windows:
```json
{
  "mcpServers": {
    "snowflake": {
      "command": "C:\\Users\\YourUsername\\anaconda3\\python.exe",
      "args": ["C:\\Path\\To\\snowflake-mcp\\server.py"]
    }
  }
}
```

MacOS/Linux:
```json
{
  "mcpServers": {
    "snowflake": {
      "command": "/usr/bin/python3",
      "args": ["/path/to/snowflake-mcp/server.py"]
    }
  }
}
```

### Snowflake Configuration

Create a `.env` file in the project root directory and add the following configuration:

```env
# Snowflake Configuration - Basic Info
SNOWFLAKE_USER=your_username          # Your Snowflake username
SNOWFLAKE_ACCOUNT=YourAccount.Region  # Example: MyOrg.US-WEST-2
SNOWFLAKE_DATABASE=your_database      # Your database
SNOWFLAKE_WAREHOUSE=your_warehouse    # Your warehouse

# Authentication - Choose one method
```

#### Authentication Options

This MCP server supports two authentication methods:

1. **Password Authentication**
   ```env
   SNOWFLAKE_PASSWORD=your_password      # Your Snowflake password
   ```

2. **Key Pair Authentication**
   ```env
   SNOWFLAKE_PRIVATE_KEY_FILE=/path/to/rsa_key.p8     # Path to private key file 
   SNOWFLAKE_PRIVATE_KEY_PASSPHRASE=your_passphrase   # Optional: passphrase if key is encrypted
   ```

   For key pair authentication, you must first set up key pair authentication with Snowflake:
   - Generate a key pair and register the public key with Snowflake
   - Store the private key file securely on your machine
   - Provide the full path to the private key file in the configuration

   For instructions on setting up key pair authentication, refer to [Snowflake documentation on key pair authentication](https://docs.snowflake.com/en/user-guide/key-pair-auth).

If both authentication methods are configured, the server will prioritize key pair authentication.

## Connection Management

The server provides automatic connection management features:

- Automatic connection initialization
  - Creates connection when first query is received
  - Validates connection parameters

- Connection maintenance
  - Keeps track of connection state
  - Handles connection timeouts
  - Automatically reconnects if connection is lost

- Connection cleanup
  - Properly closes connections when server stops
  - Releases resources appropriately

## Usage

The server will start automatically with the Claude Desktop client. No manual startup is required. Once the server is running, Claude will be able to execute Snowflake queries.

For development testing, you can start the server manually using:

```bash
python server.py
```

Note: Manual server startup is not needed for normal use. The Claude Desktop client will automatically manage server startup and shutdown based on the configuration.

## Features

- Secure Snowflake database access
- Robust error handling and reporting
- Automatic connection management
- Query execution and result processing

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License.

Commit message:

Update README to indicate support for multiple authentication methods and any MCP client

README.md, after:

# Snowflake MCP Service

A Model Context Protocol (MCP) server that provides access to Snowflake databases for any MCP-compatible client.

![GitHub repo](https://img.shields.io/badge/GitHub-snowflake--mcp-blue)
![License: MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-yellow.svg)

This server implements the Model Context Protocol to allow any MCP client to:
- Execute SQL queries on Snowflake databases
- Automatically handle database connection lifecycle (connect, reconnect on timeout, close)
- Handle query results and errors
- Perform database operations safely
- Connect using either password or key pair authentication

## Installation

1. Clone this repository
```bash
git clone https://github.com/davidamom/snowflake-mcp.git
```

2. Install dependencies
```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

## Configuration

### MCP Client Configuration Example

Below is an example configuration for Claude Desktop, but this server works with any MCP-compatible client. Each client may have its own configuration method:

```json
{
  "mcpServers": {
    "snowflake": {
      "command": "C:\\Users\\YourUsername\\path\\to\\python.exe",
      "args": ["C:\\path\\to\\snowflake-mcp\\server.py"]
    }
  }
}
```

Configuration parameters:
- `command`: Full path to your Python interpreter. Please modify this according to your Python installation location.
- `args`: Full path to the server script. Please modify this according to where you cloned the repository.

Example paths for different operating systems:

Windows:
```json
{
  "mcpServers": {
    "snowflake": {
      "command": "C:\\Users\\YourUsername\\anaconda3\\python.exe",
      "args": ["C:\\Path\\To\\snowflake-mcp\\server.py"]
    }
  }
}
```

MacOS/Linux:
```json
{
  "mcpServers": {
    "snowflake": {
      "command": "/usr/bin/python3",
      "args": ["/path/to/snowflake-mcp/server.py"]
    }
  }
}
```

### Snowflake Configuration

Create a `.env` file in the project root directory and add the following configuration:

```env
# Snowflake Configuration - Basic Info
SNOWFLAKE_USER=your_username          # Your Snowflake username
SNOWFLAKE_ACCOUNT=YourAccount.Region  # Example: MyOrg.US-WEST-2
SNOWFLAKE_DATABASE=your_database      # Your database
SNOWFLAKE_WAREHOUSE=your_warehouse    # Your warehouse

# Authentication - Choose one method
```

#### Authentication Options

This MCP server supports two authentication methods:

1. **Password Authentication**
   ```env
   SNOWFLAKE_PASSWORD=your_password      # Your Snowflake password
   ```

2. **Key Pair Authentication**
   ```env
   SNOWFLAKE_PRIVATE_KEY_FILE=/path/to/rsa_key.p8     # Path to private key file 
   SNOWFLAKE_PRIVATE_KEY_PASSPHRASE=your_passphrase   # Optional: passphrase if key is encrypted
   ```

   For key pair authentication, you must first set up key pair authentication with Snowflake:
   - Generate a key pair and register the public key with Snowflake
   - Store the private key file securely on your machine
   - Provide the full path to the private key file in the configuration

   For instructions on setting up key pair authentication, refer to [Snowflake documentation on key pair authentication](https://docs.snowflake.com/en/user-guide/key-pair-auth).

If both authentication methods are configured, the server will prioritize key pair authentication.

## Connection Management

The server provides automatic connection management features:

- Automatic connection initialization
  - Creates connection when first query is received
  - Validates connection parameters

- Connection maintenance
  - Keeps track of connection state
  - Handles connection timeouts
  - Automatically reconnects if connection is lost

- Connection cleanup
  - Properly closes connections when server stops
  - Releases resources appropriately

## Usage

The server will start automatically when configured with your MCP client. No manual startup is required in normal operation. Once the server is running, your MCP client will be able to execute Snowflake queries.

For development testing, you can start the server manually using:

```bash
python server.py
```

Note: Manual server startup is not needed for normal use. The MCP client will typically manage server startup and shutdown based on the configuration.

## Features

- Secure Snowflake database access
- Flexible authentication (password or key pair authentication)
- Robust error handling and reporting
- Automatic connection management
- Query execution and result processing
- Compatible with any MCP-compliant client

## License

[![License: MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-yellow.svg)](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)

This project is licensed under the [MIT License](LICENSE). See the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

Copyright (c) 2025 David Amom
